MICHAEL A. MACASEK

macasek@gmail.comhttp://www.macasek.org

17A Forest StApt 31Cambridge, MA 02140(508) 981 - 7728

OBJECTIVE
I am pursuing the opportunity to lead a team of dedicated engineers, creating 
software that delivers delight to its users. I am seeking a position, which will 
allow me to maintain my technical expertise with bleeding edge technologies while 
continuing to augment my project management skills.

EDUCATION
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, MA
	December 2005
	GPA 3.63
	Masters of Science in Computer Science
 
Wilkes University, Wilkes-Barre, PA
	May 2003
	GPA 3.28
	Bachelor of Science in Computer Science

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming Languages/Frameworks: Ruby on Rails, Ruby, iPhone Development, 
	Objective-C, HTML, Javascript, AJAX, Dojo Toolkit, Scriptaculous, 
	Prototype, CSS, SQL, PL/SQL, JAVA, JSP, C/C++, C#, .NET, Python, 
	Scheme, and Assembly.  Operating Systems: OSX, Windows, LinuxDatabase: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL
EXPERIENCE
The MITRE Corporation, Bedford, MA
	January 2007 - Present	Senior Software System Engineer
	Utilizing: Ruby, Ruby on Rails, iPhone Development, Objective-C, Java, 
	J2EE, Struts, Spring, Apache, Mongrel, Capistrano, AJAX, Javascript, 
	Dojo Toolkit, Scriptaculous, Prototype, HTML, CSS, SQL, and more.	Technical Lead on several corporate wide and customer oriented web 
	applications, prototypes, and open source initiatives. Actively 
	participate in all aspects of software design and engineering including 
	initial requirements gathering to the delivered product. Design and implement 
	cutting edge web applications to meet customer needs. Developed and 
	implemented overall system architectures, data models, UI design, and 
	functional designs. Lead technical staff and mentor new and junior employees.

LimeSurvey – THE Online Survey Software                 
	September 2007 – September 2008	Developer 	Utilizing: PHP, CakePHP, Apache, SQL, AJAX, Javascript, Dojo Toolkit, 
	Scriptaculous, Prototype, HTML, and CSS	Developer on LimeSurvey (limesurvey.org), a Open Source Project 
	hosted on SourceForge.net. Currently leading development of system 
	redesign for LimeSurvey2.0. 

Teradyne Inc, North Reading, MA    
	January 2006 - January 2007
	Software Engineer II
	Utilizing: .NET, ActiveX, ATL, C#, C++, C, COM, Perl, VB, and
	VBScript 
	Develop and maintain software for inline circuit testing equipment. 
	Participate in architecting next generation software solutions 
	utilizing the .NET framework. Developing UI and data model 
	components for next generation software using C#. Maintain legacy 
	software. Shipped several successful software patches and Phase 1 
	of the next generation software.                       

Intelligent Tutor Research, The Assistments Project (WPI)
	August 2004 - December 2005
	Developer
	Utilized: AJAX, Apache Tomcat, CSS, HTML, JAVA, JavaScript, JSP, 
	MySQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, and SQL
	Maintain and enhance web based Intelligent Tutoring System that 
	supported approximately 200 to 500 students per day for Worcester, 
	MA middle and high schools. Design and implement new Web 
	Applications to further enhance current system using AJAX and JAVA. 
	Participate in system architecture design. Assist in Oracle 
	administration. Managed aspects of the project, including: UI 
	design, database design, runtime, teacher tools, and core data 
	objects. Mentor for new team members. Observed class usage of 
	system to evaluate the success of the UI designs.

CEO People Helping People, Wilkes-Barre, PA
	September 2002 - August 2004
	Network Administrator
	Utilized: C++, FoxPro, SQL Server

	Monitor and troubleshoot the company network. Develop support 
	tools. Develop and maintain websites; both intranet and internet. 
	Troubleshoot PC issues. Maintain documentation. Database 
	Administration.

Wilkes University, Wilkes-Barre, PA
	August 2001 - May 2003
	Tutor

	Tutored students in a variety of computer science courses.

SalesPlus CorNet, Stroudsburg, PA
	December 1998 - August 2000
	
	IT Services Intern (May 2000 - August 2000)
	Supervised several major projects, including company wide software 
	upgrades for a company of approximately 1200 users. Assembled, 
	monitored, and maintained company’s information system equipment. 
	Responded to help requests. Assisted in the exploration of new 
	technologies for company wide use.

	Y2K Support Team Intern (December 1998 - January 2000)
	Managed Y2K Team and Interns. Reviewed all client code (C++, C, and 
	VB) for Y2K related bugs. Examined testing documentation, 
	databases, and verification tests for any date miscalculations. 
	Reviewed company owned servers and software for possible Y2K 
	issues. Reported all findings to the appropriate department for 
	correction.

PUBLICATIONS

Razzaq, Feng, Heffernan, Koedinger, Nuzzo-Jones, Junker, Macasek, Rasmussen, 
Turner & Walonoski. Blending Assessment and Instructional Assistance. In Nadia 
Nedjah, Luiza deMacedo Mourelle, Mario Neto Buroges, and Nival Nuesde Almeida 
(Eds). Intelligent Educational Machines within the Intelligent Systems 
Engineering Book Series. pp. 23-49. (http://www.isebis.eng.uerj.br/). Springer 
Berlin / Heidelberg.

Turner T.E., Lourenco A.L.N., Heffernan N.T., Macasek M.A., Nuzzo-Jones G. 
(2006), The Assistment Builder: An Analysis of ITS Content Creation 
Lifecycle, The Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society, Florida, 
USA.Macasek, M (2005). Towards Teachers Quickly Creating Tutoring Systems. 
Master thesis.  Worcester Polytechnic Institute.Razzaq, L., Feng, M., Nuzzo-Jones, G., Heffernan, N.T., Koedinger, K. R., 
Junker, B., Ritter, S., Knight, A., Aniszczyk, C., Choksey, S., Livak, T., 
Mercado, E., Turner, T.E., Upalekar. R, Walonoski, J.A., Macasek. M.A., 
Rasmussen, K.P. (2005) The Assistment Project: Blending Assessment and 
Assisting. The 12th Annual Conference on Artificial Intelligence in 
Education 2005, AmsterdamTurner, T.E., Macasek, M.A., Nuzzo-Jones, G., Heffernan, N.T., Koedinger, 
K. (2005). The Assistment Builder: A Rapid Development Tool for ITS. Poster 
in the 12th Annual Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education 2005, 
AmsterdamTurner, T.E., Macasek, M.A., Nuzzo-Jones, G., Heffernan, N.T., Koedinger, 
K. (2005). The Assistment Builder: A Rapid Development Tool for ITS. Poster 
in the 12th Annual Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education 2005 
Workshop on Adaptive Systems for Web-Based Education: Tools and 
Reusability, Amsterdam
ACHIEVEMENTS
Eagle Scout - 1997